= MakeVoteable

MakeVoteable is an extension for building a user-centric voting system for Rails 3 applications.
It currently supports ActiveRecord models.

== Installation

add MakeVoteable to your Gemfile

  gem 'make_voteable'

afterwards execute

  bundle install

generate the required migration file

  rails generate make_voteable

also add +up_votes+ and +down_votes+ columns to the voter (e.g. User) and voteable (e.g. Question) model migrations

  add_column :users, :up_votes, :integer, :null => false, :default => 0
  add_column :users, :down_votes, :integer, :null => false, :default => 0
  add_column :questions, :up_votes, :integer, :null => false, :default => 0
  add_column :questions, :down_votes, :integer, :null => false, :default => 0

migrate the database

  rake db:migrate

== Usage

  # Specify a voteable model.
  class Question < ActiveRecord::Base
    make_voteable
  end

  # Specify a voter model.
  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    make_voter
  end

  # Votes up the question by the user.
  # If the user already voted the question up then an AlreadyVotedError is raised.
  # If the same user already voted the question down then the vote is changed to an up vote.
  user.up_vote(question)

  # Votes the question up, but without raising an AlreadyVotedError when the user
  # already voted the question up (it just ignores the vote).
  user.up_vote!(question)

  # Votes down the question by the user.
  # If the user already voted the question down then an AlreadyVotedError is raised.
  # If the same user already voted the question up then the vote is changed to an down vote.
  user.down_vote(question)

  # Votes the question down, but without raising an AlreadyVotedError when the user
  # already voted the question down (it just ignores the vote).
  user.down_vote!(question)

  # Clears a already done vote by an user.
  # If the user didn't vote for the question then a NotVotedError is raised.
  user.unvote(question)

  # Does not raise a NotVotedError if the user didn't vote for the question
  # (it just ignores the unvote).
  user.unvote!(question)

  # The number of up votes for this question.
  question.up_votes

  # The number of down votes for this question.
  question.down_votes

  # The number of up votes the user did.
  user.up_votes

  # The number of down votes the user did.
  user.down_votes

  # up votes - down votes (may also be negative if there are more down votes than up votes)
  question.votes

  # Returns true if the question was voted by the user
  user.voted?(question)

  # Returns true if the question was up voted by the user, false otherwise
  user.up_voted?(question)

  # Returns true if the question was down voted by the user, false otherwise
  user.down_voted?(question)

  # Access votings through voter
  voting = user.votings.first
  voting.up_vote? # true if up vote, false if down vote

  # Access votings through voteable
  voting = question.votings.first
  voting.up_vote? # true if up vote, false if down vote

== Testing

MakeVoteable uses RSpec for testing and has a rake task for executing the provided specs

  rake spec


Copyright © 2010-2011 Kai Schlamp (http://www.medihack.org), released under the MIT license
